Added Microsoft Fabric Synapse Data Warehouse documentation to the docs (#3461)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/core/connect-data-platform/fabric-setup.md

---
title: "Microsoft Fabric Synapse Data Warehouse setup"
description: "Read this guide to learn about the Microsoft Fabric Synapse Data Warehouse setup in dbt."
id: fabric-setup
meta:
  maintained_by: Microsoft

>   authors: 'Microsoft (https://github.com/Microsoft)'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  authors: '[Microsoft] (https://github.com/Microsoft)'
```

>   authors: '[Microsoft] (https://github.com/Microsoft)'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  authors: '[Microsoft](https://github.com/Microsoft)'
```

  github_repo: 'Microsoft/dbt-fabric'
  pypi_package: 'dbt-fabric'
  min_core_version: '1.4.0'
  cloud_support: Not Supported
  platform_name: 'Microsoft Fabric'
  config_page: '/reference/resource-configs/fabric-configs'
---

:::info

> Below is a guide for use with "Synapse Data Warehouse" a new product within Microsoft Fabric (preview) ([more info](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-warehouse/data-warehousing#synapse-data-warehouse))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a guide to use [Synapse Data Warehouse](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-warehouse/data-warehousing#synapse-data-warehouse), a new product within Microsoft Fabric (preview).
```

> To learn how to set up dbt with Azure Synapse Dedicated Pools, see [Microsoft Azure Synapse DWH setup](azuresynapse-setup)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how to set up dbt with Azure Synapse Dedicated Pools, see [Microsoft Azure Synapse DWH setup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/azuresynapse-setup) 
```

| `login_timeout` | The number of seconds used to establish a connection before failing. Defaults to `0`, which means that the timeout is disabled or uses the default system settings. | Optional |  Not applicable  |
| `query_timeout` | The number of seconds used to wait for a query before failing. Defaults to `0`, which means that the timeout is disabled or uses the default system settings. | Optional |  Not applicable  |
| `schema_authorization` |  Optionally set this to the principal who should own the schemas created by dbt. [Read more about schema authorization](#schema-authorization). | Optional |  Not applicable  |
| `encrypt` |  Whether to encrypt the connection to the server. Defaults to `true`. Read more about [connection encryption](#connection-encryption). | Optional |  Not applicable  |
| `trust_cert` |   Whether to trust the server certificate. Defaults to `false`. Read more about [connection encryption](#connection-encryption).| Optional |  Not applicable  |

### Connection encryption

Microsoft made several changes in the release of ODBC Driver 18 that affects how connection encryption is configured.

> To accommodate these changes, starting in dbt-sqlserver 1.2.0 or newer the default vallues of `encrypt` and `trust_cert` have changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accommodate these changes, starting in dbt-sqlserver 1.2.0 or newer the default values of `encrypt` and `trust_cert` have changed.
```

    {label: 'AAD integrated', value: 'aad_integrated'}
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="aad_interactive">

This setting can optionally show Multi-Factor Authentication prompts.

<File name='profiles.yml'>

```yaml
your_profile_name:
  target: dev
  outputs:
    dev:
      type: fabric
      driver: 'ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server' # (The ODBC Driver installed on your system)
      server: hostname or IP of your server
      port: 1433
      database: exampledb
      schema: schema_name
      authentication: ActiveDirectoryInteractive
      user: bill.gates@microsoft.com
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="aad_integrated">

This uses the credentials you're logged in with on the current machine.

<File name='profiles.yml'>

```yaml
your_profile_name:
  target: dev
  outputs:
    dev:
      type: fabric
      driver: 'ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server' # (The ODBC Driver installed on your system)
      server: hostname or IP of your server
      port: 1433
      database: exampledb
      schema: schema_name
      authentication: ActiveDirectoryIntegrated
```

</File>

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Automatic AAD principal provisioning for grants

> Please note that automatic AAD principal provisioning is not supported by Microsoft Fabric Synapse Data Warehouse at this time. Even though, in dbt 1.2 or newer you can use the [grants](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/grants) config block to automatically grant/revoke permissions on your models to users or groups, the data warehouse does not support this feature at this time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that automatic AAD principal provisioning is not supported by Microsoft Fabric Synapse Data Warehouse at this time. Even though in dbt 1.2 or newer you can use the [grants](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/grants) config block to automatically grant/revoke permissions on your models to users or groups, the data warehouse does not support this feature at this time.
```

| `schema_authorization` | Optionally set this to the principal who should own the schemas created by dbt. [Details above](#schema-authorization).                            |                    |               |
| `login_timeout`        | The amount of seconds to wait until a response from the server is received when establishing a connection. `0` means that the timeout is disabled. |                    | `0`           |
| `query_timeout`        | The amount of seconds to wait until a response from the server is received when executing a query. `0` means that the timeout is disabled.         |                    | `0`           |

Valid values for `authentication`:

* `ActiveDirectoryPassword`: Active Directory authentication using username and password
* `ActiveDirectoryInteractive`: Active Directory authentication using a username and MFA prompts
* `ActiveDirectoryIntegrated`: Active Directory authentication using the current user's credentials
* `ServicePrincipal`: Azure Active Directory authentication using a service principal

> * `CLI`: Azure Active Directory authentication using the account you're logged in with in the Azure CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `CLI`: Azure Active Directory authentication using the account you're logged in within the Azure CLI
```
